Hey everybody, what's up?
It's Rob Dodson.
And in today's
episode of Polycast,
we're going to be picking
up where we left off
last time with the
core header panel.
We're going to take that mobile
site that we started to build,
and we're going to incorporate
one more element called
core drawer panel so we get an
experience that looks really
great both on our desktop
and on our mobile device.
So let's dive in.
So this is where we left
things off in our last video.
We've got the site
that looks really
great on our mobile device.
But on our desktop, it's
just a little stretched out.
I mean, I'm not even showing
my browser at full width here.
What I'd like to do is to add a
sidebar over here on the left,
and that way our
content is just going
to look a little bit nicer.
So what we're going
to do is we're
going to use a core drawer
panel, which is a responsive
container that combines a side
drawer with a main content
area.
Now any content that you
place in the drawer panel
that you give a
drawer attribute to
is going to actually end up
over here in your sidebar.
Likewise, any content that
you have a main attribute on
is going to end up
in your main area.
Now the cool thing
about the drawer panel
is that it's actually
responsive by default.
And so that means that,
on smaller screens,
it knows to move the
drawer out of the way.
And we can just wire it up to
something like a hamburger menu
to display that drawer again
when someone clicks on it.
Now by default,
the drawer panel is
going to collapse when
it's at about 640 pixels.
And so if we want to
change that behavior,
we can give it a
responsive width attribute
and set the responsive
width to a different value.
For instance, we could set it
equal to like 800 pixels if we
would prefer it to
collapse at that size.
Now, you might be wondering, how
does the drawer panel actually
know where to
render its children?
So let me show you
a little example.
Over here on the left,
we have the mark up
that we've been working with.
You can consider
this our Light Dom.
In the center here, we've got
the kind of abbreviated source
for the core drawer
panel itself.
We can say this
is our Shadow Dom.
And over here on
the right, we've
got a rendering of
what our final page is
going to look like.
So notice these content elements
inside of the drawer panel.
These are what are known
as insertion points.
And what insertion points
do is they actually
invite content from the Light
Dom over into the Shadow Dom.
This is done through a process
that is known as distribution.
You can think of
distribution kind
of like pointing a movie
projector at a wall.
So what we're doing
is we're actually
taking the content from
our drawer element here.
And it's being projected
into the Shadow Dom,
just like you would project
video content at a wall.
And that's being displayed
over here in our drawer area.
Likewise, with
this main element,
it's being projected
into the Shadow Dom.
And that gets rendered
as our primary content.
Now the cool thing
here is that you
can have all sorts
of markup and CSS
and whatever you
want in the Shadow
Dom that frames these elements.
So we can create really complex
structures in the Shadow Dom
and then take advantage
of them in the Light Dom
just by using a
few lines of HTML.
I think that's really powerful.
So over in our code editor,
the first thing I'm going to do
is open up the
elements HTML file.
And I'm going to import
the definition for the tags
that we're going to be
using in this example.
So I'm going to import
the core drawer panel.
I'm going to import
the core menu.
And I'm going to
import the core item.
Now back in my
next HTML file, I'm
going to create a core
drawer panel element.
And then I'm just going to grab
this header panel right here
and actually move it up
into my drawer panel.
And I've got to remember to
include that main attribute.
And that way, it's going to
render as our primary content.
And we can ditch
the flex attribute,
because that drawer
panel is going
to handle laying this
element out for us.
Now I'm also going to
create a second header panel
inside of here.
And this is going to
be the content that
goes into our drawer.
So I've got to make sure to
give it a drawer attribute.
And then I'm just
going to create
a toolbar inside of here.
And we'll say, give it a
title of something like, menu.
Then below that, we'll throw
in that core menu element
that we imported, and
we'll create two menu items
inside of here.
We'll just give each
of these a label
that will represent the
different pages in our site.
So we'll say one and two.
Now we're going to add
some CSS and JavaScript
to our application.
But first, I want to go down
here to our core icon button.
And I want to give
it an ID of nav icon.
That's just going to
make it a lot easier
to work with later on.
I'm also going to go up
to my core drawer panel
and give it an ID
of drawer panel.
Now, over in our
app CSS, I'm just
going to paste in a few styles.
And this is some
pretty typical stuff.
We're setting a
background color.
We're setting another background
color in our drawer panel.
But there's this really
interesting style down here
at the bottom where I'm
saying, when the core drawer
panel is not narrow, the nav
icon should be display none.
So what does that mean exactly?
Well, if we hop over
to the documentation,
and we scroll down to
the Attributes section
for the core drawer
panel, you'll
see that there's this
narrow attribute right here.
And basically what happens
with the narrow attribute is,
when the door
panel is collapsed,
the narrow attribute
gets set to true
and it ends up
showing up on the tag.
When the drawer panel
is at full size,
the narrow attribute
gets removed.
So basically, what our
CSS is saying right here
is, hide the hamburger
menu when we're expanded,
and then show it
when we're collapsed.
It moves out of the way,
and that hammer icon
appears up there
in the top left.
And if we stretch
things out again,
you'll see that the
hamburger menu is hidden
and the drawer panel
slides back out.
Pretty cool.
Now, there's one
missing piece here.
When I click the
hamburger menu, I
want the drawer to
actually slide back out.
So how are we going
to go about that?
Well if we hop back in
to the documentation,
and if we scroll down
to the methods section,
you'll see that there's a
toggle panel method here
which allows us to toggle
the panel open and closed.
So in our application,
we're going
to create a new
file called app js.
And then inside
this file, I'm just
going to paste in a
little bit of JavaScript.
And I'll walk you through
what's going on here.
We're first listening for
the polymer ready event.
That way, we're guaranteed
that all of our elements
have upgraded and
they're ready to rock.
We're taking the nav
icon in the drawer panel
that we gave IDs to earlier.
And we're telling the nav icon
to listen to any click events.
And when it hears
a click event, it
should tell the drawer
panel to toggle open.
So if we preview this is
our application, click
the hamburger, it
opens the drawer.
And then we can mess around with
our menu buttons if we want.
Clicking the grey area
collapses it again.
So just like that, we have
a fully responsive website.
And we only had to write a
tiny bit of CSS and JavaScript.
I think that's pretty awesome.
In the next episode, I'm going
to show you one weird trick
to spice up your
core drawer panel.
And after that, we're
going to start wiring
this up with some real content.
So as always,
thanks for watching.
I'll see you next time.